 
         SACREP Version 6.0  -  The Quick Overview 
                   by A.J. Crayon and Dan Ward 
                          May 24, 1993

 SACREP.EXE  is  a  report  generator program that can  be  used  against  the 
 SAC60.DBF  file.   This  program  is designed as  a  quick  way  to  generate 
 observing lists from the SAC60 database for those who are not conversant with 
 database programs.  It can also be used to extract smaller files for use with 
 database managers, word processing programs, text editors or even spreadsheet 
 programs.   Version 6.0 replaces all earlier versions. 

 Nine  files are included within SACREP.ZIP.  This file, SACREP.TXT,  provides 
 some background and simple instructions.  The files SAC1REP.FRM, SAC2REP.FRM,  
 SAC3REP.FRM, SAC4REP.FRM and SAC5REP.FRM are report format files.  SACBLK.DBF 
 is an empty datafile to provide the correct format for converting SAC60  text 
 files  into  the  DBF format needed by SACREP.  The SACPARMS.DBF  file  is  a 
 parameter  file telling the program where to find the data files.   The  main 
 program is SACREP.EXE. 

 SAC  6.0  is  distributed with files in a ZIPed status.   If  you  used  the 
 INSTALL.BAT program, it unZips the SAC60B through SAC60E into 24 separate 
 ASCII files named SAC60-00.ASC through SAC60-23.ASC, which correspond to 
 hours of right ascension.
 
                The Main Menu

 Execute  the program by entering SACREP.  This will bring up the  main  menu, 
 which  has  nine  menu options. The first option produces  reports  based  on 
 Constellations.    The  second option generates reports based on a  range  of 
 coordinates.   Option three creates a database extract for  a  Constellation.  
 Option  four  creates a database extract based on Coordinates.   Option  five 
 will  append  previously extracted small data files into a larger  file.  The 
 sixth  option  will  create or update the constellation index  file  for  the 
 database.  Option Seven will display the database entry for a single  option.  
 Option  Eight updates the program parameters.  Option Nine will  convert  the 
 SAC60.TXT  file  to  the DBF file format needed for all  the  other  options.  
 Option zero is an Exit.  

 If  you  have never used SACREP before, the first time you  use  SACREP,  the 
 SAC60 data files need to be converted to a DBF file.  This is  Option 9
 9 from the main menu of SACREP.  Once you have converted the data, you could 
 delete the SAC60-??.ASC files, but you probably want to maintain your 
 original set of ZIP files in case you need them in the future.

 The  program  is shipped with SAC60.DBF as the database default  and  assumes 
 that  the files are in a subdirectory called C:\SAC60.  If you  have  already 
 installed an earlier version of SACREP, double check menu option 8 to see  if 
 your  path and database filename are correct.  

               Producing Reports

 1.   To run an observing list based on a Constellation, the user is  prompted 
 to enter the standard  three  letter  abbreviation   for   the   desired 
 constellation.  (See the SACDOC.TXT FILE for a list of those abbreviations.)  
 The program is not upper/lower case sensitive.

  Next,  enter a range of magnitudes for brightest  magnitude,  then  dimmest 
 magnitude.  The  programs expect a range from -1 to 99.9  magnitude.   (Some 
 objects  do  not have magnitudes - dark nebulae.  These are  listed  in  the 
 database  with a value of 79.9.   All other  objects have a "normal" catalog 
 magnitude rating.  A few objects with unknown magnitudes are listed 
 with 99.9 for their magnitude.  

 Next,  indicate whether to route the report to a disk file (d) or  a  printer 
 (p),  with  the printer as a default.  The disk file will be  an  ASCII  file 
 complete with page headings, etc.  The next choice is to choose a  particular 
 type of object for the observing list, such as GALXY for galaxies, DRKNB  for 
 Dark   Nebula,  etc.   See  the  SAC60  note  file  for  the  full  list   of 
 abbreviations.  The default option, ALL__ will provide a complete listing  of 
 all object types that meet the other selection criteria.

 There  are 5 report formats to choose from.  Report type 1 has an 80 column 
 format,  Format 2 is 128 columns; format 3 runs 160 columns, format  4 needs 
 185 and format 5 runs 245 columns.  The first three contain only some of the 
 database  fields,  while the last three options contain all of  the database 
 fields.   Except for forms 1 and 5, the reports may fold the longest fields.  
  
 The program pauses for a printer check.  To keep it simple, I did not create 
 a printer table, so you need to make sure that the printer is already set for 
 the desired typefont.  If you send the report to a disk file, a filename must 
 be entered.  If no file extension is provided, the program will automatically 
 append  the  extension  of '.txt'.  The filename should not be one that is 
 currently in use. 

  The last choice is to hit enter to process the report or enter 0 to  return 
 to the main menu.  

  2.  Main Menu Option Two provides reports on a range of coordinates, object 
 types  and magnitudes.  The program expects whole numbers between 0  and  24, 
 for right ascension.  It expects whole numbers between -90 and 90  inclusive 
 for declination.  The other choices follow the same format as described  for 
 the Constellation report option.  Be sure to enter your desired  ranges,  as 
 the default values will give you everything!

 3. & 4.   Database  extracts  allow you to  extract  all  of the  database 
 information fields, based on the same type of selection criteria used by  the 
 two report generator options.   If the database is used by someone who  never 
 observes  objects  fainter  than 13th magnitude, and  never  lower  than  -40 
 degrees  declination, those criteria could be used to create a  much  smaller 
 version of the SAC60 database.  That database would then be much faster  than 
 using  the full blown version.   The Database extracts for  Coordinates  uses 
 the same selection criteria as the Coordinate report generators - except  the 
 output goes to a file whose name you must supply. 
 
 The  text  file  version has all fields delimited  with  double  quotes  and 
 separated by commas.  This type of file can be read by most database programs 
 and  can  be imported into most spreadsheet software.  The DBF  extract  file 
 version, is in a standard dBASE file format.  

  5.   Main Menu Option Five can be used to append files with the same  format 
 into the other DBF files.  This is an easy way to create a variety of smaller 
 observing   databases.   For  example,  the  user  could  create   individual 
 constellation extracts, then append each file to have a new combined database 
 such  as seasonal databases based on the available constellations.   We  have 
 two warnings.  FIRST, the program will append one file to another.  So if you 
 create  a database based on coordinates, then append a constellation  extract 
 of  an  constellation  within  those same coordinates,  you  would  now  have 
 duplicates  of some objects.  SECOND, if you plan to use the extracts to  run 
 reports, be sure to run the INDEXING option, described below.

  6.   Option  Six  from the main menu will creates  index  files  to  provide 
 reports  and  extracts  sorted  by Constellations, RA,  Object  name  or  the 
 othernames  fields.   If you decide to use database extracts instead  of  the 
 main database, you will need to index those new databases with this option.

  7.   Main Menu Option 7 will provide a listing of the data for a  particular 
 object.  You can enter the Name or Other Name of an object.  For example, NGC 
 1068  is also known as M 77. Be sure to use the name format as used in the 
 SACDOC.TXT documentation file.  This program is looking for an exact match.
 "BERK58" will not locate "Berk 58."  Upper/lower case does not matter, but 
 spacing is critical.   

 The Messier Objects were loaded into the Other name field as five characters. 
 M 101 is an 'M' followed by a blank space, then '101' M  33 is an 'M' followed 
 by two blank spaces, then '33'  and M   1 is an 'M' followed by three blank 
 spaces followed by '1'.  This maintains the ASCII sort order.

 You can continue  to  browse  forward in the database from any point by
 entering an F, move backwards in the database by entering a B, or use Q  
 to return to the main menu.   This browse  forward and backwards makes it 
 easy to scan through a catalog.  For example, you can scan through the 
 entire Messier catalog by searching on "M" or "M   1" and going Forward.

 8.   From the Main Menu, option 8 will allow you to  modify  the  program  
 parameters.   Entering  an  8 takes you to a  screen  showing  your  current 
 program settings.  The first choice displays your current drive:\path.  Enter 
 the new drive:\path if needed; or hit enter to leave it alone.
  
 The  next line shows the current database filename.  Enter a  new name,   if  
 needed, or hit enter to leave it as it is.  The  last  line prompts  you  for 
 the  display  options.   There  are  two color   and  one  black  and  white 
 alternative.   As  this  program only displays text,  there  are  no  special 
 graphics considerations.

 9.   Option 9 is used to convert the distribution database text files to the 
 DBF  format.  If you are using a hard disk, INSTALL.BAT will  have  extracted 
 the four text files into 24 data files, SAC60-00 through SAC60-23.  Option 9 
 checks your parameters, converts the ASCII files to SAC60.DBF and then 
 indexes it.
                    
                    How Do I Stop It?
 If  you happen to hit the wrong key and start a report you do not want,  you 
 can cancel out an in-progress action by holding down the ALT key and hitting 
 the  letter C.  Alt-C is the standard cancel processing command  for Clipper 
 compiled  programs.  If you are cancelling a printer report, this would  not 
 clear  anything you may have already sent into a printer buffer  or spooler.  
 Obviously,  you  can  also power down your computer to stop  a  process,  
 but Alt-C is cleaner.

               For More Report Options

 SACREP will NOT meet all conceivable needs.  There are many good database 
 programs on the market.  Most will be able to use or convert the SAC60-?? 
 files or the SAC60.DBF files to a format they can use. 

               IF You Just HAVE to Know More 

 The  SACREP  programs  were written in dBASE III  plus,  and  compiled  
 using Clipper.  SACREP.EXE is hereby placed in the Public Domain and may 
 be  freely distributed  as  is,  provided  no fees are charged.   However,  
 it must be distributed with all files intact. 

 The  programmers assume NO responsibility or liability for the program's  
 use or misuse.  It is offered solely as a goodwill gesture to help support  
 those whose astronomical skills exceed their computer programming skills! 

 You can leave a message for Dan Ward on the AstroForum in CompuServe 
 (id 72040,3357), where he usually checks in at least once a week. 

                   
                   Database Trivia 

 We hereby express my sincere thanks to the entire Saguaro Astronomy Club 
 Database Project team, who gave us advance extracts of SAC60 to help  
 develop this  program.   Their  dedicated efforts have provided astronomers  
 with a fantastic  observing  database!  Our limited efforts to prepare 
 this  report generator  program  and install program are a mere 
 drop in the  bucket,  when compared with their work! 

 Nearly all of the original SAC Deep Sky database team members belong to the 
 Saguaro Astronomy Club (SAC) in the Metro Phoenix area of Arizona, hence the 
 name  of the  database.   (A  Saguaro is the large variety of  cactus  often  
 seen  in Western movies and quite common around Phoenix.   Saguaros are 
 massive plants with large upturned arms, and are only found in Arizona 
 and Mexico.) 

 A.J. Crayon wrote SPROGS, a series of dBASE programs for the original release 
 of SAC 4.0.  Dan Ward wrote SACREP 4.0. which was also released with SAC 4.0.  
 We  combined  forces to create SACREP 5.0, which was a blend of the  best  of 
 both.   We fixed a minor upper/lower case problem with SACREP  5.1.   

 SACREP  5.2a fixed a minor glitch by updating a filename in the new  version.  
 SACREP 5.2b  was used as a test version by Dan Ward to figure out why some 
 of the things that worked so well in dBASE did not translate into  his  
 Clipper version.   Version 5.2c was a rewrite of version 5.2 and added 
 faster report generation, the addition of a separate parameters screen, more 
 formats for the printout reports, and improved individual object searches.  
 
 Version 6.0 is an update for the revision of the SAC deepsky database.  It 
 also converts the Othernames and Object indexes to upper case so option 7 
 is no longer case sensitive.  Due to changes in some field sizes, the 
 elimination of one field and the addition of a new field, SACREP 6.0 
 is not compatible with earlier versions of the database. 
 
 dBASE and dBASE III+ were registered trademarks of ASHTON-TATE.  CLIPPER is  
 a registered  trademark  of Nantucket Corporation.  We hereby  recognize  
 their ownership  to  said  terms throughout this document,  and  also  
 respectfully kowtow in their directions for making our lives easier via 
 the introduction of those stated products!  

     A.J. Crayon and Dan Ward   - May 24, 1993 

